The process begins when a patient receives a prescription.

If the prescription is not for the patient themself, the client is unable to provide additional signatures or documents and the prescription remains unfilled.
If the prescription is for the patient themself, the patient shows their Medicare card and prescriptions.

The pharmacist at the NewTown Health Chemist Dispensing Process receives and checks the script details.

If the prescription is not valid the prescription remains unfilled.
If the prescription is valid, the patient profile is opened and reviewed in the pharmacy information system.

Next, the prescription info is ready to view.

The pharmacist then checks if the patient is suspicious

If the patient is suspicious, the pharmacist contacts the GP (doctor) for advice.
The doctor replies via email/call to the pharmacist and the pharmacist is provied with advice/recommendation.
Next, the deciison is confirmed and the prescription remain unfilled.

If the patient is not suspicious, the pharmacist checks the patient's status in person, including any allergies, pregnancy, and past history.

The pharmacist then check if the patient passed the status check.

If the status check does not pass, the pharmacist offers alternatives with a lower dosage level to the patient.

If the patient agrees, the pharmacist adds a short memo.
If the patient does not agree, the prescription remains unfilled.

If the status check passes, the pharmacist selects the correct prescribed dosage and checks the prescription inventory.

If the medication is out of stock, the pharmacist informs the patient about alternatives.
If the medication is in stock, the pharmacist  double-checks and collects the correct drugs.

The system calculates the Medicare costs waivers and total fees.

The pharmacist then prints and attaches labels with Consumer Medicine Information (CMI), which are send to the patient.

The patient receives the counseltation and recommendation on time and proceeds to pay the prescription fees.

After payment, the patient receives the prescriptions, and the dispensing process ends.

